---
layout: page
title: 2023-02-26 Weekly Ham Radio Activities
permalink: /weekly/2023-02-26
---

_Maybe you're looking for [next week's](/weekly/2023-03-05) or [last week's](/weekly/2023-02-19) newsletter_?

## Recap üîÅ

* 02/22 Wed **LCARA Technical Committee Meeting**: CANCELLED due to snow
* 02/25 Sat **Cowlitz ACS Exercise**
  * 15 checkins, good participation. Still crunching the numbers, will report
    further details Wednesday at the ACS meeting.

## Upcoming Events üóì

* 03/01 Wed 1900 **Cowlitz County ACS Meeting** at LCARA Clubhouse
* 03/04 Sat [**ARRL DX Contest SSB**](http://www.arrl.org/arrl-dx)

### Later in March

* 3/11 Sat [**41st Annual Mike and Key Electronics Show**](http://www.mikeandkey.org/flea.php) -- Puyallup, WA
* 3/15 Wed **LCARA Business Meeting**

## Pirates üè¥‚Äç‚ò†Ô∏è

And now, a word from Brian KJ7OX, regarding pirates...

Now that the HF bands are getting better and better with the start of Solar
Cycle 25, this means the idiots will come out of hiding.  This means "Pirates".
These are definitely not the swashbuckling variety!  They are callsign stealing,
no callsign using, bad intentioned radio thugs.  I don't want to call them
"CB'ers" because they're not all that way but I will say most of them are and
bring bad habits to our hobby.

The other day I was calling CQ just above 28.500 and someone with the callsign
"121" came back allegedly from the Bahamas.  I asked him "is that your full
callsign"?  He responded resoundingly and excitedly "yes" as if I were some
distant rare DX contact.  I asked once more, "am I missing some numbers or
letters in your call"?  "121 is correct"?  He quickly responded with "4-10"
another CB slang term for "10-4".  It confirmed what I suspected at the start,
he was a radio pirate.  I asked him "are you wearing the puffy pirate shirt to
go along with your illegal pirate radio operation"?  Crickets, No response...
Scared away.

I started a conversation with another radio pirate who was using an SK callsign.
This means a 'dead guy callsign'.  It pays to have QRZ.com callsign lookup going
in the background while you're on the air.  I called him on it and he was gone.

Friends just be aware that there are those out there with ill intentions who
have no respect for our hobby.  Also know that 'you' can become responsible or
liable for enabling the situation.  As Amateur Radio Operators we are a self
policing body.  I'm not advocating you to interact with radio pirates as I did
even though it was very brief.  It's best to ignore and warn other hams on the
next QSO that there are one or two around. I did warn a few other hams that I'd
heard some pirates were navigating 10 meter waters not far off shore.

On another note...  A friendly reminder, I've heard 2-3 technicians who
'mistakenly' were above 28.500.  This is General Class and above radio real
estate.  I was angered that a few hams actually worked them on the air without
checking QRZ.com callsign lookup.  General class and above amateur operators
should 'politely' remind the person that they're operating out of band
privileges and to please stop.  

Now for some band edge clarification.  Novice/Tech 10 meter phone operations
take place from 28.300 - 28.500.  This being known, you may not operate at
28.300 nor 28.500 specifically.  Half your transmitted bandwidth will take your
signal beyond each of these frequency limits and you'll be illegally out of
band.  You also cannot transmit on 28.303 nor 28.497 because some of your signal
might escape the band edge.  With some older more narrow filtered radios at
about 2.4 KHz wide it cuts close but with newer transceivers at 2.8 KHz
bandwidth you 'could' be heard just out of band.

## Nets ‚úÖ

### NEW GMRS Net

#### New night: **Tuesday** / New time: **20:00**

- 02/28 Tue 2000: GMRS Net - Open to all licensed GMRS operators
  - [WRNM663 462.650 MHz T114.8 +500](https://www.repeaterbook.com/gmrs/details.php?state_id=53&ID=367) (Rainier)

### Other Nets

- 02/27 Mon 2000: [Cowlitz County ACS](http://cowlitzradio.org/) Net - Open to all Amateurs
  - [W7DG 147.260 MHz T114 +060](https://www.repeaterbook.com/repeaters/details.php?ID=408&state_id=53)
  - Also, [check in via APRS message](/info/aprsnet/) to [N7DEM-5: CHECKIN Name Location](https://aprs.fi/?c=message&call=N7DEM-5)
- 02/28 Tue 0900: CEMNET Region IV Net - Winlink, V-Tac 12, 224.660 MHz (EOC)
  - Email [kf7hvm@0x26.net](mailto:kf7hvm@0x26.net) to be added to the weekly
    Winlink test
- 03/05 Sun 2000: [W7MSH Mercury Mt. St. Helens](https://www.w7msh.org) ERC Net - Open to all Amateurs
  - 2000 Woodland Checkin [W7DG 147.300 MHz T114 +060](https://www.repeaterbook.com/repeaters/details.php?state_id=53&ID=412)
  - 2015 Roundtable [W7DG 147.260 MHz T114 +060](https://www.repeaterbook.com/repeaters/details.php?ID=408&state_id=53)

## Clubhouse Internet

In mid February 2023, LCARA switched internet providers for the clubhouse. The
connection should be noticably faster and more reliable now. The wifi network
name and password have not changed.

Please **report any issues you experience** with the internet at the clubhouse
to Glen N7UIG or Masen KF7HVM

**If you are interested in beta testing remote access to the clubhouse radios,
please let me know.**

# Thanks for reading. 

Kindly send any comments, corrections, events, pictures, stories, or content for
this newsletter to [kf7hvm@0x26.net](mailto:kf7hvm@0x26.net).

Consider joining the [LCARA W7DG Facebook Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/LCARA.W7DG/).
